Let's go read some code.
So again, make sure you're in
the websocket/exercise-socketio.
Directory, I'm gonna go get there myself,
close these.
I'm gonna go over to exercise socketio.
Restart my old server here,
and I'm gonna get
into exercise-socketio
run your NPM install
So here we have socket.io
that we're installing.
And then I think the rest I ended up
writing with express just because it was
really easy.
The one thing that I will call out
here in index.html is down here.
I'm actually loading the socket.io
client off of their CDN.
Normally we just have the build
process with like parcel or Webpack.
We're not doing that today,
just trying to keep it really simple.
So here inside of your socketio chat,
you'll have a global called IO.
That's just available to that's just so,
that's where that's coming from,
is we're loading it off the CDN.
Okay, so let's head over to server.js.
Notice we don't have any of our helpers
because socket.io will handle all
that stuff for us.
And we have this server primitive that
we're getting from the socket.io package.
So one of the first things first is
we're creating our static assets here.
So actually I don't think we're
using express really at all.
You can use socket.io and
express together.
But for our case, all you needed
to do is serve static assets.
So I just did that right there for you.
Okay.
And yeah, just to emphasize this is going
to be like a 100 times easier than what
we did before.
So, where we go says code goes here,
what we're gonna say is
const io equals new server.
We're going to pass in our server and
no options.
So you can create a new socket.io
server without an HTTP server,
but it will reuse the same one
if you already make one, right?
Because we have to serve
static assets up here.
We're just going to reuse
the same server but
that's something that socket.io
can technically handle as well.
Okay, and then here we're gonna say io.on.
Connection, I don't know
if you'd say that io but
that's what I'm gonna pronounce it as.
Socket.
And then here we're just
gonna say console.log.
Connected.
Socket.id .d And
then we're gonna say
socket.on(disconnect).
We're gonna say, console.log,
disconnected, socket.id
I mean, this is pretty close to it for
starting a socket.io server, right?
So now we should be able to start
running our server, npm run dev.
And see here we're running on 8080 again.
Nothing's happening on the servers,
I guess if you can come back over to
the client and this will load right,
nothing else is happening here.
But it will load the page cuz it's
serving all the static assets.
So let's go back and
go into socket io chat in our front end.
And here we're gonna say
const socket = io and
remember this is being loaded globally,
http:// localhost 8080.
This will know to connect an upgrade
to aws and all that kind of stuff.
We don't have to handle any of that.
We can just say connect to this and
know you figured out using smart.
And then here we can just
say socket.on connect.
Consoled.log connected.
And here we'll do our
presence indicator as
well presence.innertext = green circle.
Same thing here.
socket.on disconnect
We'll just say same thing but
go to the red circle.
Okay, then here you'll say red circle.
Okay, so, servers running on 8080,
we should come back over here,
refresh the page.
And notice that our
green circles connected.
If you look here, this is connected
here if you see down here, connected,
this is going to give you
a unique identifier per socket.
These ones are not reused.
So you'll see these being unique
every single time which is good.
So here's a really cool thing that you
might have noticed in our other examples,
like the Ross socket one,
the HTTP2, all that kind of stuff.
When we disconnected,
we did not retry, right.
We did not attempt to reconnect, right.
We would have had to write that
logic that's detected, okay.
I just connected, okay.
Now I gotta go and retry and reconnect and
do all those kinds of things.
socket.io just does it for
you out of the box.
So, if I come here and cancel this right,
okay, now I'm red, right?
Because that's disconnected I'm gonna come
back here and start my server again And
eventually might reconnect there you go,
just reconnects.
That's pretty cool like in of itself
like this socket.io is already worth
it to me that I don't have to
go rewrite reconnection logic.
Like we had already talked
about back off and retry.
It's the word it's just not, fun code
to write, read, this just works for
you out of the box.
I don't know I love it.
So that's the nice thing here is like if
we come in here and save our code and
make, like make our server restart.
So you notice here I restarted my server.
You can see already down here,
it just reconnects,
I don't have to do anything about it.
Just by having that window open.
So, first advantage they're
handling all that kind of
just stuff you never wanted
to think about for you.
And you can turn that
off by the way it's not.
I think it's retry or something like that
you can turn off those retry connections.
But why would you?
Yeah, I'm not gonna show
you this right now.
But we already talked about it
that if my browser did not support
WebSockets it would
actually start pulling.
I wonder if I could, I don't know.
Let's try this const
this is a terrible idea.
WebSocket, window.websocket=no.
I have no idea what's gonna do.
Sorry this is gonna go
on the socket io chat.
So now we're gonna come over here.
Let's actually go into
our network panel and
see if it's actually doing polling or
something like that.
No way it actually is.
So there you go,
you click on this you can see here
the transport right there equals polling.
Didn't have to do anything just
ended up working that way and
notice like all the same
logic still works.
It still says connected it's still
running like the on connect.
All the on data stuff is
gonna work the same way.
Just works.
It's subtracts away the idea of a
connection for you is just like, look up,
we'll figure it out, right?
You go read your code and socket.io is
gonna figure out the rest of it for you.
Okay never do that it's a terrible idea,
but
it was definitely fun to experiment with.